---
layout: post
title: "CCT Pi Cloud Project Using a Docker- Part 4"
date: 2018-01-19 02:53:24 +0000
---


## Making Custom Docker Image Using Dockerfile

Reason we are making Dockerfile is making your custom environment for developing an apps.
Sometimes you need to make image with your own configuration. Using Dockerfile, you can easily archive this.


### What is Dockerfile?

Dockerfile has configuration you made in it.
Followings are example of configuration of Dockerfile.

#### ENTRYPOINT

Specifies the command that a container created from the image always runs. In this example, the command is /usr/sbin/httpd -D FOREGROUND, which starts the HTTP server process.

#### EXPOSE
Defines that the specified port is available to service incoming requests. You can use the -p or -P options with docker run to map this port to another port on the host. Alternatively, you can use the --link option with docker run to allow another container to access the port over Docker's internal network (see Section 4.6, “Communicating Between Docker Containers”).

#### FROM
Defines the image that Docker uses as a basis for the new image.

#### MAINTAINER
Defines who is responsible for the Dockerfile.

#### RUN
Defines the commands that Docker runs to modify the new image. In the example, the RUN lines set up the web proxy, install the httpd package, and create a simple home page for the server.


In this example we made 2 changes. - Notice COPY section.


{% highlight terminal %}
rainbowtape@Jins-MacBook-Pro:~/documents/docker$ nano Dockerfile
rainbowtape@Jins-MacBook-Pro:~/documents/docker$ cat Dockerfile
FROM nginx:1.12.2-alpine
MAINTAINER jin@email.com
COPY ./nginx.conf /etc/nginx/nginx.conf
COPY ./src /usr/share/nginx/html
rainbowtape@Jins-MacBook-Pro:~/documents/docker$ 
{% endhighlight %}


Then build the custom Images

{% highlight terminal %}
rainbowtape@Jins-MacBook-Pro:~/documents/docker$ docker build -t my-custom-image:1.0 .
Sending build context to Docker daemon   5.12kB
Step 1/4 : FROM nginx:1.12.2-alpine
 ---> 24ed1c575f81
Step 2/4 : MAINTAINER jin@email.com
 ---> Running in 4983b368c672
Removing intermediate container 4983b368c672
 ---> 25f9a70454ad
Step 3/4 : COPY ./nginx.conf /etc/nginx/nginx.conf
 ---> 8c9978ad842c
Step 4/4 : COPY ./src /usr/share/nginx/html
 ---> 824782108998
Successfully built 824782108998
Successfully tagged my-custom-image:1.0
rainbowtape@Jins-MacBook-Pro:~/documents/docker$
rainbowtape@Jins-MacBook-Pro:~/documents/docker$ docker images
REPOSITORY          TAG                 IMAGE ID            CREATED             SIZE
my-custom-image     1.0                 824782108998        38 seconds ago      15.5MB
nginx               1.12.2-alpine       24ed1c575f81        10 days ago         15.5MB
rainbowtape@Jins-MacBook-Pro:~/documents/docker$

{% endhighlight %}
